


TopicThis article applies to BIG-IQ systems 4.0.0 and later. For information about other versions, refer to the following articles:SOL7727: License activation may be required prior to software upgrade for the BIG-IP or Enterprise Manager systemSOL05211126: Introducing new BIG-IQ Cloud and BIG-IQ Centralized Management product offeringsLicense Check DateThe License Check Date is a static date built into the software for the BIG-IQ system. The following table contains the License Check Date for each version:VersionLicense Check Date (yyyy/mm/dd)BIG-IQ 5.1.02016-09-01BIG-IQ 5.0.02016-04-29BIG-IQ 4.6.02015-10-23BIG-IQ 4.5.02014-12-04BIG-IQ 4.4.02014-08-04BIG-IQ 4.3.02014-02-07BIG-IQ 4.2.02013-12-02BIG-IQ 4.1.02013-07-17BIG-IQ 4.0.02013-03-16BIG-IQ Cloud and Orchestration 1.0.02015-11-01Note: The License Check Date, as shown previously, and the Licensed Date, as seen in the license file, located in /config/bigip.license, are not the same fields. The Licensed Date in the license file is the first date that you used your Registration Key to license your BIG-IQ system. The only time you would see an update to the Licensed Date field would be after an Allow-Move procedure, which allows a relicensing of your BIG-IQ system using your original Registration Key.Service Check DateThe Service Check Date is located in the license file and is the same as the date the license was last activated or the date the service contract for the device expires, whichever date is earlier. For example, if you have an active service contract that ends on December 31, and you license a device on June 30, the Service Check Date is set to June 30.Note: The Service Check Date in the license file is updated each time the license is reactivated, if there is an active service contract for this BIG-IQ system.Enforcement during an upgradeWhen you upgrade a system, the install script verifies the Service Check Date with the License Check Date of the version being installed. If the Service Check Date is missing or is earlier than the License Check Date, the upgrade does not continue, and the system displays an error message similar to the following example:An active service contract is required for the software you are attempting to install. The license found for <system name> <system version> does not contain a valid service check date for this software release. If you have a current service contract, please re-activate your product license and resume installation. If you do not have an active service contract, please contact F5 Sales. Cannot proceed with changes to this product image.Enforcement during system startupThe License Check Date enforcement also applies during system startup. The system compares the License Check Date to the Service Check Date in the license file. If the Service Check Date is earlier than the License Check Date, the system initializes, but does not load the configuration. To allow the configuration to load, you must update the Service Check Date in the license file by reactivating the system's license.RecommendationsYou can prevent upgrade issues by relicensing your system before you perform the upgrade, or recover a system that fails to initialize by relicensing your system after you perform the upgrade. To do so, complete the following two procedures:Verifying the Service Check Date of your licenseImpact of procedure: Performing the following procedure should not have a negative impact on your system.Log in to the BIG-IQ system command line.Parse the license file for the Service Check Date by typing the following command:	grep "Service check date" /config/bigip.license	Reference the License Check Date table previously listed in this article, and verify that the Service Check Date listed is later than the License Check Date listed for the version you are upgrading. If the Service Check Date in your license file is earlier than the License Check Date for the software version you are attempting to install, you must reactivate the system's license before upgrading.Reactivating the system licenseImpact of procedure: The license reactivation process may reload the configuration and temporarily interrupt traffic processing.Log in to the BIG-IQ user interface using an account with an Administrator role.	For BIG-IQ 5.0.0 or later, navigate to System Management > BIG-IQ HA > Domain Name of BIG-IQ system > Licensing and click Reactivate.	For BIG-IQ 4.5.0 or 4.6.0, navigate to System > HA Peer Group > localhost > Licensing and click Reactivate.	For BIG-IQ 4.4.0, navigate to System > Management Group > localhost, and click Reactivate.	For BIG-IQ 4.1.0 through 4.3.0, navigate to System > Overview > License, and click Re-Activate.	For BIG-IQ 4.0.0, navigate to System > License, and click Re-activate.	Select either Automatic or Manual as the activation method.	Note: If your system does not have Internet access to the F5 license server, you must select Manual.	Click Activate or Next, and follow the on-screen instructions.Supplemental InformationSOL15094: Licensing the BIG-IQ systemSOL15055: Using tmsh to view and manage licenses for BIG-IP and BIG-IQ systems

